# fire-extinguisher-car
Fires are among the most important form of problems. Robot industry has a lot of work in this area. So today robot is more commonly used to reduce the human efforts. The need of Fire extinguisher Robot that can detect and extinguish a fire on its own. Robotics is one of the fastest growing engineering fields of today. Robots are designed to remove the human factor from working intensive or dangerous work and also to act in inaccessible environment. With the invention of such a device, lives and property can be saved with minimal damage caused by the fire. As an engineer we have to design a prototype that could autonomously detect the fire and extinguish it. The Fire Extinguisher Robot is designed to search for a fire in the house or industry for extinguish the fire. The main and only work is to deploy the robot in a fire prone area and the robot will automatically work once it detects a fire breakout. This prototype helps in Rescue operations during fire accidents where the entry of service man is very difficult in the fire prone area. There are several existing types of vehicles for fire fighting at home and extinguish forest fires. Our proposed robot is designed to be able to work on its own or be controlled remotely. By using such robots, fire identification and rescue activities can be done with higher security without placing fire fighters at high risk and dangerous conditions.A recent trend that has become popular is to use robots instead of humans to handle fire hazards. In our project, we develop a robot that is able to locate and extinguish fire in a given environment. The robot navigates the area and avoids any obstacles it faces in its excursion. Arduino board acts as a brain of the whole control circuitry. This Robot consist sensor that are interfaced in the control circuitry. Sensors are used to detect fire prone area all direction. When the robot reaches fire zone then a pump extinguisher is attached on the robot comes into action to extinguish the fire.
